Probabilities over all possible outcomes sum to one  As we get more evidence, probabilities may change:  P(T=heavy) = 0.25, P(T=heavy | Hour=8am) = 0.60  We’ll talk about methods for reasoning and updating probabilities later 0.25 0.50 0.25 Reminder: Expectations  The expected value of a function of a random variable is the average, weighted by the probability distribution over outcomes  Example: How long to get to the airport? Time: 20 min Probability: 0.25 x + 30 min x 0.50 + 60 min x 0.25 35 min What Probabilities to Use?  In expectimax search, we have a probabilistic model of how the opponent (or environment) will behave in any state  Model could be a simple uniform distribution (roll a die)  Model could be sophisticated and require a great deal of computation  We have a chance node for any outcome out of our control: opponent or environment  The model might say that adversarial actions are likely!  F o r n o w , a s s u m e e a c h c h a n c e n o d e m a g i c a l l y comes along with probabilities that specify the distribution over its outcomes Having a probabilistic belief about another agent’s action does not mean that the agent is flipping any coins! Quiz: Informed Probabilities  Let’s say you know that your opponent is actually running a depth 2 minimax, using the result 80% of the time, and moving randomly otherwise  Question: What tree search should you use?  Answer: Expectimax! 0.1 0.9  To figure out EACH chance node’s probabilities, you have to run a simulation of your opponent  This kind of thing gets very slow very quickly  Even worse if you have to simulate your opponent simulating you…  … except for minimax, which has the nice property that it all collapses into one game tree Modeling Assumptions The Dangers of Optimism and Pessimism Dangerous Optimism Assuming chance when the world is adversarial Dangerous Pessimism Assuming the worst case when it’s not likely Assumptions vs. Reality Adversarial Ghost Random Ghost Won 5/5 Won 5/5 Avg. Score: 483 Avg. Score: 493 Won 1/5 Won 5/5 Avg. Score: -303 Avg. Score: 503 Minimax Pacman Expectimax Pacman Results from playing 5 games Pacman used depth 4 search with an eval function that avoids trouble Ghost used depth 2 search with an eval function that seeks Pacman Assumptions vs. Reality Adversarial Ghost Random Ghost Won 5/5 Won 5/5 Avg. Score: 483 Avg. Score: 493 Won 1/5 Won 5/5 Avg. Score: -303 Avg. Score: 503 Minimax Pacman Expectimax Pacman Results from playing 5 games Pacman used depth 4 search with an eval function that avoids trouble Ghost used depth 2 search with an eval function that seeks Pacman [Demos: world assumptions (L7D3,4,5,6)] Other Game Types Mixed Layer Types  E.g. Backgammon  Expectiminimax  Environment is an extra “random agent” player that moves after each min/max agent 