§ A function that estimates how close a state is to a goal § Designed for a particular search problem Examples: Manhattan distance, Euclidean distance for pathing h(x) § Expand the node that seems closest… § What can go wrong? Strategy: expand a node that you think is closest to a goal state Heuristic: estimate of distance to nearest goal for each state A common case: Best-first takes you straight to the (wrong) goal Worst-case: like a badly-guided DFS Time and Space Complexity: O(bm) Not Optimal: Global Optimum? § Uniform-cost orders by path cost, or backward cost g(n) § Greedy orders by goal proximity, or forward cost h(n) A* Search orders by the sum: f(n) = g(n) + h(n) Should we stop when we enqueue a goal? No: only stop when we dequeue a goal. What went wrong? Actual bad goal cost < estimated good goal cost We need estimates to be less than actual costs! Inadmissible (pessimistic) heuristics break optimality by trapping good plans on the fringe Admissible (optimistic) heuristics slow down bad plans but never outweigh true costs A heuristic h is admissible (optimistic) if: Where is the true cost to a nearest goal. Coming up with admissible heuristics is most of what’s involved in using A* in practice. Consistency? H(n) <= c(n,a,n’) + h(n’) H(n)-H(n’) <= C(n,a,n’) A heuristic h is admissible (optimistic) if: Where is the true cost to a nearest goal. Coming up with admissible heuristics is most of what’s involved in using A* in practice. Consistency? H(n) <= c(n,a,n’) + h(n’) H(n)-H(n’) <= C(n,a,n’) Assume: A is an optimal goal node B is a suboptimal goal node h is admissible Claim: A will exit the fringe before B • A* is cost-optimal, which we can be shown with a proof by contradiction. • Suppose the optimal path has cost C*, but the algorithm returns a path with cost C >C*. Then there must be some node nwhich is on the optimal path and is unexpanded (because if all the nodes on the optimal path had been expanded, then we would have returned that optimal solution). Proof: § Imagine B is on the fringe. § Some ancestor n of A is on the fringe, too (maybe A!). § Claim: n will be expanded before B. 1. f(n) is less or equal to f(A). Proof: § Imagine B is on the fringe. § Some ancestor n of A is on the fringe, too (maybe A!). § Claim: n will be expanded before B. 1. f(n) is less or equal to f(A) 2. f(A) is less than f(B) Proof: § Imagine B is on the fringe. § Some ancestor n of A is on the fringe, too (maybe A!). § Claim: n will be expanded before B. 1. f(n) is less or equal to f(A) 2. f(A) is less than f(B)