Claim: n will be expanded before B. 1. f(n) is less or equal to f(A) 2. f(A) is less than f(B) Proof: § Imagine B is on the fringe. § Some ancestor n of A is on the fringe, too (maybe A!). § Claim: n will be expanded before B. 1. f(n) is less or equal to f(A) 2. f(A) is less than f(B) 3. n expands before B § All ancestors of A expand before B § A expands before B § A* search is optimal § Most of the work in solving hard search problems optimally is in coming up with admissible heuristics § Often, admissible heuristics are solutions to relaxed problems, where new actions are available. ü Inadmissible heuristics are often useful too Uniform-cost expands equally in all “directions” A* expands mainly toward the goal, but does hedge its best to ensure optimality § Video games § Pathing / Routing problems § Resource planning problems § Robot motion planning § Language analysis Dominance: h ≥ h a c if Heuristics form a semi-lattice: § Max of admissible heuristics is admissible Trivial heuristics § Bottom of lattice is the zero heuristic (what does this give us?) § Top of lattice is the exact heuristic Tree Search: Extra Work! § Failure to detect repeated states can cause exponentially more work. In BFS, for example, we shouldn’t bother expanding the circled nodes (why?) Idea: never expand a state twice How to implement: ▪ Tree search + set of expanded states (“closed set”) ▪ Expand the search tree node-by-node, but… ▪ Before expanding a node, check to make sure its state has never been expanded before ▪ If not new, skip it, if new add to closed set Important: store the closed set as a set, not a list; reducing overhead. Can graph search wreck completeness? Why/why not? How about optimality? Idea: never expand a state twice How to implement: ▪ Tree search + set of expanded states (“closed set”) ▪ Expand the search tree node-by-node, but… ▪ Before expanding a node, check to make sure its state has never been expanded before ▪ If not new, skip it, if new add to closed set Important: store the closed set as a set, not a list; reducing overhead. Can graph search wreck completeness? Why/why not? How about optimality?