Debela Desalegn March 16, 2025 An intelligent agent that finds solutions by searching for the best sequence of actions. Informed vs Uninformed : Known world ▪ Goal Formulation ▪ Problem Formulation (Abstraction) ▪ Search (simulated) ▪ Execution (Closed Loop vs Open Loop) ▪ Choose action based on current percept (and maybe memory) ▪ May have memory or a model of the world’s current state ▪ Do not consider the future consequences of their actions ▪ Ask “what if” ▪ Decisions based on (hypothesized) consequences of actions ▪ Must have a model of how the world evolves in response to actions ▪ Must formulate a goal (test) state a sequence of actions (a plan/path) which transforms the start state to a goal ü A state space ü A successor function (with actions, costs) ü A start state and a goal test ▪ Cities ▪ Roads: Go to adjacent ▪ city with cost = distance ▪ Arad ▪ Is state == Bucharest? The world state includes every last detail of the environment. A search state/search tree keeps only the details needed for planning (abstraction). § States: (x,y) location § Actions: NSEW § Successor: update location only § Goal test: is (x,y)=END ▪ States: {(x,y), dot booleans} ▪ Actions: NSEW ▪ Successor: update location and possibly a dot boolean ▪ Goal test: dots all false : A mathematical representation of a search problem are (abstracted) world configurations represent successors (action results) § The is a set of goal nodes (maybe only one) ▪ We can rarely build this full graph in memory (it’s too big), but it’s a useful idea : A mathematical representation of a search problem are (abstracted) world configurations represent successors (action results) § The is a set of goal nodes (maybe only one) ▪ We can rarely build this full graph in memory (it’s too big), but it’s a useful idea Tiny state space graph for a tiny search problem ▪ A “what if” tree of plans and their outcomes ▪ The start state is the root node ▪ Children correspond to successors ▪ Nodes show states, but correspond to PLANS that achieve those states ▪ For most problems, we can never actually build the whole tree How big is its search tree (from S)? ▪Expand out potential plans (tree nodes) ▪Maintain a fringe/frontier of partial plans under consideration ▪Try to expand as few tree nodes as possible ▪Fringe/Frontier ▪Expansion ▪Exploration strategy Which fringe nodes to explore? The essence of search the state to which the node corresponds; the node in the tree that generated this node; the action that was applied to the parent’s state to generate this node; the total cost of the path from the initial state to this node. In mathematical formulas, we use as a synonym for PATH-COST. ▪ A data structure for a frontier could be a Queue (Priority Queue, FIFO Queue, LIFO queue (stack)). No clue about how close a state is to the goal(s). Have information on how to traverse or visit the nodes in the tree.