Minimax up to depth 2, using evaluation function at depth 2 3. Do a Minimax up to depth 3, using evaluation function at depth 3 4. Do a Minimax up to depth 4, using evaluation function at depth 4 … When out of time: Return the result from the deepest search that was fully completed … b Synergies between Evaluation Function and Alpha-Beta?  Alpha-Beta: amount of pruning depends on expansion ordering  Evaluation function can provide guidance to expand most promising nodes first (which later makes it more likely there is already a good alternative on the path to the root)  (somewhat similar to role of A* heuristic, CSPs filtering)  Alpha-Beta: (similar for roles of min-max swapped)  Value at a min-node will only keep going down  Once value of min-node lower than better option for max along path to root, can prune  Hence: IF evaluation function provides upper-bound on value at min-node, and upper-bound already lower than better option for max along path to root THEN can prune MiniMiniMax and Emerging Coordination  Minimax can be extended to more than 2 players min  e.g. 2 ghosts and 1 pacman min  Result: even though the 2 ghosts independently run their own MiniMiniMax search, they will naturally coordinate because: … max  They optimize the same objective  They know they optimize the same objective (i.e. they know the other ghost is also a minimizer) … min … min … … Summary  Games are decision problems with 2 or more agents  Huge variety of issues and phenomena depending on details of interactions and payoffs  For zero-sum games, optimal decisions defined by minimax  Implementable as a depth-first traversal of the game tree  Time complexity O(bm), space complexity O(bm)  Alpha-beta pruning  Preserves optimal choice at the root  alpha/beta values keep track of best obtainable values from any max/min nodes on path from root to current node  Time complexity drops to O(bm/2) with ideal node ordering  Exact solution is impossible even for “small” games like chess  Evaluation function  Iterative deepening (i.e. go as deep as time allows)  Emergence of coordination:  For 3 or more agents (all MIN or MAX agents), coordination will naturally emerge from each independently optimizing their actions through search, as long as they know for each other agent whether they are MIN or MAX