β): initialize v = +∞ for each successor of state: v = min(v, value(successor, α, β)) if v ≤ α return v β = min(β, v) return v Alpha-Beta Pruning Properties  This pruning has no effect on minimax value computed for the root!  Values of intermediate nodes might be wrong  Important: children of the root may have the wrong value  Important: tie-break for action selection to favor the earlier node explored max min  Good child ordering improves effectiveness of pruning  With “perfect ordering”:  Time complexity drops to O(bm/2)  Doubles solvable depth!  Full search of, e.g. chess, is still hopeless… 10 10 0  This is a simple example of metareasoning (computing about what to compute) Alpha-Beta Quiz Alpha-Beta Quiz 2 Alpha-Beta Quiz 2 10 10 <=2 >=100 2 Resource Limits  Problem: In realistic games, cannot search to leaves!  Solution: Depth-limited search  Instead, search only to a limited depth in the tree  Replace terminal utilities with an evaluation function for non-terminal positions max 4 -2 4 -1 -2 4 ? ? ? min 9  Example:  Suppose we have 100 seconds, can explore 10K nodes / sec  So can check 1M nodes per move  - reaches about depth 8 – decent chess program  Guarantee of optimal play is gone  More plies makes a BIG difference  Use iterative deepening for an anytime algorithm ? Evaluation Functions  Evaluation functions score non-terminals in depth-limited search  Ideal function: returns the actual minimax value of the position  In practice: typically weighted linear sum of features:  e.g. f1(s) = (num white queens – num black queens), etc. Pitfall: Thrashing with Bad Evaluation Function  A danger of depth-limited search with not-so-great evaluation functions  Pacman knows his score will go up by eating the dot now (west, east)  Pacman knows his score will go up just as much by eating the dot later (east, west)  There are no point-scoring opportunities after eating the dot (within the horizon, two here)  Therefore, waiting seems just as good as eating: he may go east, then back west in the next round of replanning! Depth Matters  Evaluation functions are always imperfect  The deeper in the tree the evaluation function is buried, the less the quality of the evaluation function matters  An important example of the tradeoff between complexity of features and complexity of computation \ Iterative Deepening Iterative deepening using Minimax (or AlphaBeta) as subroutine: Until run out of time: 1. Do a Minimax up to depth 1, using evaluation function at depth 1 2. Do a Minimax up to depth 2, using evaluation function at depth 2 3. Do a Minimax up to depth 3, using evaluation function at depth 3 4. Do a Minimax up to depth 4, using evaluation function at depth 4 … When out of time: Return the result from the deepest search that was fully completed … b Synergies between Evaluation Function and Alpha-Beta? 